doc/flow.rst, before:

Flows
=====

.. currentmodule:: course.constants

All interactive content in RELATE is part of a *flow*. Here is a complete
example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    title: "RELATE Test Quiz"
    description: |

        # RELATE Test Quiz

    rules:
        # (Things behind '#' hash marks are comments.)
        # Allow students to start two attempts at the quiz before the deadline.
        # After that, only allow access to previously started quizzes.

        start:
        -
            if_before: 2015-03-06 23:59:00
            if_has_role: [student, ta, instructor]
            if_has_fewer_sessions_than: 2
            may_start_new_session: True
            may_list_existing_sessions: True

        -
            may_start_new_session: False
            may_list_existing_sessions: True

        # Allow students to submit quiz answers before the deadline.
        # After the deadline, the quiz becomes read-only. (The 'modify'
        # permission goes away.)

        access:
        -
            if_before: 2015-03-06 23:59:00
            permissions: [view, modify, see_correctness]

        -
            permissions: [view, see_correctness, see_answer_after_submission]

        # Record grades under the machine-readable name 'test_quiz'.
        # If there is more than one grade, use the maximum.

        grade_identifier: test_quiz
        grade_aggregation_strategy: max_grade

    pages:

    -
        type: Page
        id: welcome
        content: |

            # Welcome to the test quiz for RELATE!

            Don't be scared.

    -
        type: ChoiceQuestion
        id: color
        prompt: |

            # Colors

            What color is the sun?

        choices:

        - Blue
        - Green
        - ~CORRECT~ Yellow

    completion_text: |

        # See you in class!

        Thanks for completing the quiz.

When described in YAML,
a flow has the following components:

.. class:: Flow

    .. attribute:: title

        A plain-text title of the flow

    .. attribute:: description

        A description in :ref:`markup` shown on the start page of the flow.

    .. attribute:: completion_text

        (Optional) Some text in :ref:`markup` shown once a student has
        completed the flow.

    .. attribute:: rules

        (Optional) Some rules governing students' use and grading of the flow.
        See :ref:`flow-rules`.

    .. attribute:: groups

        A list of :class:`FlowPageGroup`.  Exactly one of
        :attr:`groups` or :class:`pages` must be given.

    .. attribute:: pages

        A list of :ref:`pages <flow-page>`. If you specify this, a single
        :class:`FlowPageGroup` will be implicitly created. Exactly one of
        :attr:`groups` or :class:`pages` must be given.

.. _flow-rules:

Flow rules
----------

Here's a commented example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    rules:
        # Rules that govern when a new session may be started and whether
        # existing sessions may be listed.

        start:
        -
            # Members of the listed roles may start a new session of this
            # flow if they have fewer than 2 existing sessions if the current
            # time is before the event 'end_week 1'.

            if_before: end_week 1
            if_has_role: [student, ta, instructor]
            if_has_fewer_sessions_than: 2
            may_start_new_session: True
            may_list_existing_sessions: True

        -
            # Otherwise, no new sessions will be allowed,
            # but existing ones may be listed.

            may_start_new_session: False
            may_list_existing_sessions: True

        # Rules that govern what a user may do with an existing session.
        access:
        -
             # Before the event 'end_week 2', a user may view, submit answers
             # to the flow, and see the grade they received for their answers.

             if_before: end_week 2
             permissions: [view, modify, see_correctness]

        -
             # Afterwards, they will also be allowed to see the correct answer.
             permissions: [view, modify, see_correctness, see_answer_after_submission]

        # Rules that govern how (permanent) grades are generated from the
        # results of a flow.

        # Grades for this flow are recorded under grade identifier 'la_quiz'.
        # Multiple such grades (if present) are aggregated by taking their maximum.

        grade_identifier: la_quiz
        grade_aggregation_strategy: max_grade

        grading:
        -
            # If the user completes the flow before the event 'end_week 1', they
            # receive full credit.

            if_completed_before: end_week 1
            credit_percent: 100

        -
            # Otherwise, no credit is given.
            credit_percent: 0

.. class:: FlowRules

    Found in the ``rules`` attribute of a flow.

    .. attribute:: start

        A list of :class:`FlowStartRules`

        Rules are tested from top to bottom. The first rule
        whose conditions apply determines the access.

    .. attribute:: access

        A list of :class:`FlowAccessRules`.

        Rules are tested from top to bottom. The first rule
        whose conditions apply determines the access.

    .. rubric:: Grading-Related

    .. attribute:: grade_identifier

        (Required) The identifier of the grade to be generated once the
        participant completes the flow.  If ``null``, no grade is generated.

    .. attribute:: grade_aggregation_strategy

        (Mandatory if :attr:`grade_identifier` is not ``null``)

        One of :class:`grade_aggregation_strategy`.

    .. attribute:: grading

        A list of :class:`FlowGradingRules`

        Rules are tested from top to bottom. The first rule
        whose conditions apply determines the access.

.. class:: FlowStartRules

    Rules that govern when a new session may be started and whether
    existing sessions may be listed.

    Found in the ``start`` attribute of :class:`FlowRules`.

    .. rubric:: Conditions

    .. attribute:: if_after

        (Optional) A :ref:`datespec <datespec>` that determines a date/time after which this rule
        applies.

    .. attribute:: if_before

        (Optional) A :ref:`datespec <datespec>` that determines a date/time before which this rule
        applies.

    .. attribute:: if_has_role

        (Optional) A list of a subset of ``[unenrolled, ta, student, instructor]``.

    .. attribute:: if_in_facility

        (Optional) Name of a facility known to the RELATE web page. This rule allows
        (for example) restricting flow starting based on whether a user is physically
        located in a computer-based testing center (which RELATE can
        recognize based on IP ranges).

    .. attribute:: if_has_in_progress_session

        (Optional) A Boolean (True/False) value, indicating that the rule only applies
        if the participant has an in-progress session.

    .. attribute:: if_has_session_tagged

        (Optional) An identifier (or ``null``) indicating that the rule only applies
        if the participant has a session with the corresponding tag.

    .. attribute:: if_has_fewer_sessions_than

        (Optional) An integer. The rule applies if the participant has fewer than this
        number of sessions.

    .. attribute:: if_has_fewer_tagged_sessions_than

        (Optional) An integer. The rule applies if the participant has fewer than this
        number of sessions with access rule tags.

    .. rubric:: Rules specified

    .. attribute:: may_start_new_session

        (Mandatory) A Boolean (True/False) value indicating whether, if the rule applies,
        the participant may start a new session.

    .. attribute:: may_list_existing_sessions

        (Mandatory) A Boolean (True/False) value indicating whether, if the rule applies,
        the participant may view a list of existing sessions.

    .. attribute:: tag_session

        (Optional) An identifier that will be applied to a newly-created session as a "tag".
        This can be used by :attr:`FlowAccessRules.if_has_tag` and
        :attr:`FlowGradingRules.if_has_tag`.


.. class:: FlowAccessRules

    Rules that govern what a user may do with an existing session.

    Found in the ``access`` attribute of :class:`FlowRules`.

    .. rubric:: Conditions

    .. attribute:: if_after

        (Optional) A :ref:`datespec <datespec>` that determines a date/time after which this rule
        applies.

    .. attribute:: if_before

        (Optional) A :ref:`datespec <datespec>` that determines a date/time before which this rule
        applies.

    .. attribute:: if_has_role

        (Optional) A list of a subset of ``[unenrolled, ta, student, instructor]``.

    .. attribute:: if_in_facility

        (Optional) Name of a facility known to the RELATE web page. This rule allows
        (for example) restricting flow access based on whether a user is physically
        located in a computer-based testing center (which RELATE can
        recognize based on IP ranges).

    .. attribute:: if_has_tag

        (Optional) Rule applies if session has this tag (see :attr:`FlowStartRules.tag_session`),
        an identifier.

    .. attribute:: if_in_progress

        (Optional) A Boolean (True/False) value. Rule applies if the session's
        in-progress status matches this Boolean value.

    .. attribute:: if_completed_before

        (Optional) A :ref:`datespec <datespec>`. Rule applies if the session was completed before
        this time.

    .. attribute:: if_expiration_mode

        (Optional) One of :class:`flow_session_expiration_mode`. Rule applies if the expiration mode
        (see :ref:`flow-life-cycle`) matches.

    .. attribute:: if_session_duration_shorter_than_minutes

        (Optional) The rule applies if the current session has been going on for
        less than the specified number of minutes. Fractional values (e.g. "0.5")
        are accepted here.

    .. rubric:: Rules specified

    .. attribute:: permissions

        A list of :class:`flow_permission`.

        :attr:`flow_permission.submit_answer` and :attr:`flow_permission.end_session`
        are automatically removed from a finished (i.e. not 'in-progress')
        session.

    .. attribute:: message

        (Optional) Some text in :ref:`markup` that is shown to the student in an 'alert'
        box at the top of the page if this rule applies.

.. class:: FlowGradingRules

    Rules that govern how (permanent) grades are generated from the
    results of a flow.

    Found in the ``grading`` attribute of :class:`FlowRules`.

    .. rubric:: Conditions

    .. attribute:: if_has_role

        (Optional) A list of a subset of ``[unenrolled, ta, student, instructor]``.

    .. attribute:: if_has_tag

        (Optional) Rule applies if session has this tag (see :attr:`FlowStartRules.tag_session`),
        an identifier.

    .. attribute:: if_completed_before

        (Optional) A :ref:`datespec <datespec>`. Rule applies if the session was completed before
        this time.

    .. rubric:: Rules specified

    .. attribute:: credit_percent

        (Optional) A number indicating the percentage of credit assigned for this flow.
        Defaults to 100 if not present.

    .. attribute:: due

        A :ref:`datespec <datespec>` indicating the due date of the flow. This is shown to the
        participant and also used to batch-expire 'past-due' flows.

    .. attribute:: generates_grade

        (Optional) A Boolean indicating whether a grade will be recorded when this
        flow is ended. Note that the value of this rule must never change over
        the lifetime of a flow. I.e. a flow that, at some point during its lifetime,
        *may* have been set to generate a grade must *always* be set to generate
        a grade. Defaults to ``true``.

    .. attribute:: use_last_activity_as_completion_time

        (Optional) A Boolean indicating whether the last time a participant made
        a change to their flow should be used as the completion time.

        Defaults to ``false`` to match past behavior. ``true`` is probably the more
        sensible value for this.

    .. attribute:: description

        (Optional) A description of this set of grading rules being applied to the flow.
        Shown to the participant on the flow start page.

.. autoclass:: grade_aggregation_strategy

.. _flow-groups:

Page groups
-----------

Each flow consists of a number of page groups, each of which is made up of
individual :ref:`flow-page`.

The purpose of page groups is to allow shuffling and random selection of
some subset of pages. For example, this functionality would allow you to
have a flow consisting of:

* a fixed introduction page (that is always at the beginning)

* a group of exam questions randomly selected from a bigger pool

* a fixed final page (that may ask the student to, say, affirm academic
  honesty)

Each of these would be a separate 'group'.

Each group allows the following attributes:

.. class:: FlowPageGroup

    .. attribute:: id

        (Required) A symbolic name for the page group.

    .. attribute:: pages

        (Required) A list of :ref:`flow-page`

    .. attribute:: shuffle

        (Optional) A boolean (True/False) indicating whether the order
        of pages should be as in the list :attr:`FlowGroup.pages` or
        determined by random shuffling

    .. attribute:: max_page_count

        (Optional) An integer limiting the page count of this group
        to a certain value. Allows selection of a random subset by combining
        with :attr:`FlowGroup.shuffle`.

.. _flow-permissions:

Permissions
-----------

RELATE currently supports the following permissions:

.. autoclass:: flow_permission

The ``modify`` permission is automatically removed from
a finished session.

.. _page-permissions:

Per-page permissions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. _flow-life-cycle:

Life cycle
----------

.. autoclass:: flow_session_expiration_mode

.. _flow-page:

Flow pages
----------

.. currentmodule:: course.page

The following page types are predefined:

* :class:`Page` -- a page of static text
* :class:`TextQuestion` -- a page allowing a textual answer
* :class:`SurveyTextQuestion` -- a page allowing an ungraded textual answer
* :class:`HumanGradedTextQuestion` -- a page allowing an textual answer graded by a human
* :class:`InlineMultiQuestion` -- a page allowing answers to be given in-line of a block of text
* :class:`ChoiceQuestion` -- a one-of-multiple-choice question
* :class:`MultipleChoiceQuestion` -- a many-of-multiple-choice question
* :class:`SurveyChoiceQuestion` -- a page allowing an ungraded multiple-choice answer
* :class:`PythonCodeQuestion` -- an autograded code question
* :class:`PythonCodeQuestionWithHumanTextFeedback`
  -- a code question with automatic *and* human grading
* :class:`FileUploadQuestion`
  -- a question allowing a file upload and human grading

.. |id-page-attr| replace::

    A short identifying name, unique within the page group. Alphanumeric
    with dashes and underscores, no spaces.

.. |title-page-attr| replace::

    The page's title, a string. No markup allowed. Optional. If not supplied,
    the first five lines of the page body are searched for a first-level
    Markdown heading (``# My title``) and this heading is used as a title.

.. |access-rules-page-attr| replace::

    Optional. See :ref:`page-permissions`.

.. |value-page-attr| replace::

    An integer or a floating point number, representing the
    point value of the question.

.. |text-widget-page-attr| replace::

    Optional.
    One of ``text_input`` (default), ``textarea``, ``editor:yaml``,
    ``editor:markdown``.

.. autoclass:: Page()
.. autoclass:: TextQuestion()
.. autoclass:: SurveyTextQuestion()
.. autoclass:: HumanGradedTextQuestion()
.. autoclass:: InlineMultiQuestion()
.. autoclass:: ChoiceQuestion()
.. autoclass:: MultipleChoiceQuestion()
.. autoclass:: SurveyChoiceQuestion()
.. autoclass:: PythonCodeQuestion()
.. autoclass:: PythonCodeQuestionWithHumanTextFeedback()
.. autoclass:: FileUploadQuestion()

Definining your own page types
------------------------------

.. autoclass:: PageContext
.. autoclass:: PageBehavior
.. autofunction:: get_auto_feedback
.. autoclass:: AnswerFeedback
.. autoclass:: PageBase

.. currentmodule:: course.page.base
.. autoclass:: PageBaseWithTitle
.. autoclass:: PageBaseWithHumanTextFeedback
.. autoclass:: PageBaseWithCorrectAnswer

Commit message:

Clarify how to disable grade generation

doc/flow.rst, after:

Flows
=====

.. currentmodule:: course.constants

All interactive content in RELATE is part of a *flow*. Here is a complete
example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    title: "RELATE Test Quiz"
    description: |

        # RELATE Test Quiz

    rules:
        # (Things behind '#' hash marks are comments.)
        # Allow students to start two attempts at the quiz before the deadline.
        # After that, only allow access to previously started quizzes.

        start:
        -
            if_before: 2015-03-06 23:59:00
            if_has_role: [student, ta, instructor]
            if_has_fewer_sessions_than: 2
            may_start_new_session: True
            may_list_existing_sessions: True

        -
            may_start_new_session: False
            may_list_existing_sessions: True

        # Allow students to submit quiz answers before the deadline.
        # After the deadline, the quiz becomes read-only. (The 'modify'
        # permission goes away.)

        access:
        -
            if_before: 2015-03-06 23:59:00
            permissions: [view, modify, see_correctness]

        -
            permissions: [view, see_correctness, see_answer_after_submission]

        # Record grades under the machine-readable name 'test_quiz'.
        # If there is more than one grade, use the maximum.

        grade_identifier: test_quiz
        grade_aggregation_strategy: max_grade

    pages:

    -
        type: Page
        id: welcome
        content: |

            # Welcome to the test quiz for RELATE!

            Don't be scared.

    -
        type: ChoiceQuestion
        id: color
        prompt: |

            # Colors

            What color is the sun?

        choices:

        - Blue
        - Green
        - ~CORRECT~ Yellow

    completion_text: |

        # See you in class!

        Thanks for completing the quiz.

When described in YAML,
a flow has the following components:

.. class:: Flow

    .. attribute:: title

        A plain-text title of the flow

    .. attribute:: description

        A description in :ref:`markup` shown on the start page of the flow.

    .. attribute:: completion_text

        (Optional) Some text in :ref:`markup` shown once a student has
        completed the flow.

    .. attribute:: rules

        (Optional) Some rules governing students' use and grading of the flow.
        See :ref:`flow-rules`.

    .. attribute:: groups

        A list of :class:`FlowPageGroup`.  Exactly one of
        :attr:`groups` or :class:`pages` must be given.

    .. attribute:: pages

        A list of :ref:`pages <flow-page>`. If you specify this, a single
        :class:`FlowPageGroup` will be implicitly created. Exactly one of
        :attr:`groups` or :class:`pages` must be given.

.. _flow-rules:

Flow rules
----------

Here's a commented example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    rules:
        # Rules that govern when a new session may be started and whether
        # existing sessions may be listed.

        start:
        -
            # Members of the listed roles may start a new session of this
            # flow if they have fewer than 2 existing sessions if the current
            # time is before the event 'end_week 1'.

            if_before: end_week 1
            if_has_role: [student, ta, instructor]
            if_has_fewer_sessions_than: 2
            may_start_new_session: True
            may_list_existing_sessions: True

        -
            # Otherwise, no new sessions will be allowed,
            # but existing ones may be listed.

            may_start_new_session: False
            may_list_existing_sessions: True

        # Rules that govern what a user may do with an existing session.
        access:
        -
             # Before the event 'end_week 2', a user may view, submit answers
             # to the flow, and see the grade they received for their answers.

             if_before: end_week 2
             permissions: [view, modify, see_correctness]

        -
             # Afterwards, they will also be allowed to see the correct answer.
             permissions: [view, modify, see_correctness, see_answer_after_submission]

        # Rules that govern how (permanent) grades are generated from the
        # results of a flow.

        # Grades for this flow are recorded under grade identifier 'la_quiz'.
        # Multiple such grades (if present) are aggregated by taking their maximum.

        grade_identifier: la_quiz
        grade_aggregation_strategy: max_grade

        grading:
        -
            # If the user completes the flow before the event 'end_week 1', they
            # receive full credit.

            if_completed_before: end_week 1
            credit_percent: 100

        -
            # Otherwise, no credit is given.
            credit_percent: 0

.. class:: FlowRules

    Found in the ``rules`` attribute of a flow.

    .. attribute:: start

        A list of :class:`FlowStartRules`

        Rules are tested from top to bottom. The first rule
        whose conditions apply determines the access.

    .. attribute:: access

        A list of :class:`FlowAccessRules`.

        Rules are tested from top to bottom. The first rule
        whose conditions apply determines the access.

    .. rubric:: Grading-Related

    .. attribute:: grade_identifier

        (Required) The identifier of the grade to be generated once the
        participant completes the flow.  If ``null``, no grade is generated.

        If you would like to specify ``null``, i.e. 'no grade', you will find
        that you are still required to have a :attr:`grading` block or that the
        validation may complain about :attr:`FlowGradingRules.generates_grade`
        still being ``true``. In this instance, use the following snippet to
        entirely disable recording of grades for this flow::

            grade_identifier: null

            grading:
            -   generates_grade: false

    .. attribute:: grade_aggregation_strategy

        (Required if :attr:`grade_identifier` is not ``null``)

        One of :class:`grade_aggregation_strategy`.

    .. attribute:: grading

        (Required) A list of :class:`FlowGradingRules`

        Rules are tested from top to bottom. The first rule
        whose conditions apply determines the access.


.. class:: FlowStartRules

    Rules that govern when a new session may be started and whether
    existing sessions may be listed.

    Found in the ``start`` attribute of :class:`FlowRules`.

    .. rubric:: Conditions

    .. attribute:: if_after

        (Optional) A :ref:`datespec <datespec>` that determines a date/time after which this rule
        applies.

    .. attribute:: if_before

        (Optional) A :ref:`datespec <datespec>` that determines a date/time before which this rule
        applies.

    .. attribute:: if_has_role

        (Optional) A list of a subset of ``[unenrolled, ta, student, instructor]``.

    .. attribute:: if_in_facility

        (Optional) Name of a facility known to the RELATE web page. This rule allows
        (for example) restricting flow starting based on whether a user is physically
        located in a computer-based testing center (which RELATE can
        recognize based on IP ranges).

    .. attribute:: if_has_in_progress_session

        (Optional) A Boolean (True/False) value, indicating that the rule only applies
        if the participant has an in-progress session.

    .. attribute:: if_has_session_tagged

        (Optional) An identifier (or ``null``) indicating that the rule only applies
        if the participant has a session with the corresponding tag.

    .. attribute:: if_has_fewer_sessions_than

        (Optional) An integer. The rule applies if the participant has fewer than this
        number of sessions.

    .. attribute:: if_has_fewer_tagged_sessions_than

        (Optional) An integer. The rule applies if the participant has fewer than this
        number of sessions with access rule tags.

    .. rubric:: Rules specified

    .. attribute:: may_start_new_session

        (Mandatory) A Boolean (True/False) value indicating whether, if the rule applies,
        the participant may start a new session.

    .. attribute:: may_list_existing_sessions

        (Mandatory) A Boolean (True/False) value indicating whether, if the rule applies,
        the participant may view a list of existing sessions.

    .. attribute:: tag_session

        (Optional) An identifier that will be applied to a newly-created session as a "tag".
        This can be used by :attr:`FlowAccessRules.if_has_tag` and
        :attr:`FlowGradingRules.if_has_tag`.


.. class:: FlowAccessRules

    Rules that govern what a user may do with an existing session.

    Found in the ``access`` attribute of :class:`FlowRules`.

    .. rubric:: Conditions

    .. attribute:: if_after

        (Optional) A :ref:`datespec <datespec>` that determines a date/time after which this rule
        applies.

    .. attribute:: if_before

        (Optional) A :ref:`datespec <datespec>` that determines a date/time before which this rule
        applies.

    .. attribute:: if_has_role

        (Optional) A list of a subset of ``[unenrolled, ta, student, instructor]``.

    .. attribute:: if_in_facility

        (Optional) Name of a facility known to the RELATE web page. This rule allows
        (for example) restricting flow access based on whether a user is physically
        located in a computer-based testing center (which RELATE can
        recognize based on IP ranges).

    .. attribute:: if_has_tag

        (Optional) Rule applies if session has this tag (see :attr:`FlowStartRules.tag_session`),
        an identifier.

    .. attribute:: if_in_progress

        (Optional) A Boolean (True/False) value. Rule applies if the session's
        in-progress status matches this Boolean value.

    .. attribute:: if_completed_before

        (Optional) A :ref:`datespec <datespec>`. Rule applies if the session was completed before
        this time.

    .. attribute:: if_expiration_mode

        (Optional) One of :class:`flow_session_expiration_mode`. Rule applies if the expiration mode
        (see :ref:`flow-life-cycle`) matches.

    .. attribute:: if_session_duration_shorter_than_minutes

        (Optional) The rule applies if the current session has been going on for
        less than the specified number of minutes. Fractional values (e.g. "0.5")
        are accepted here.

    .. rubric:: Rules specified

    .. attribute:: permissions

        A list of :class:`flow_permission`.

        :attr:`flow_permission.submit_answer` and :attr:`flow_permission.end_session`
        are automatically removed from a finished (i.e. not 'in-progress')
        session.

    .. attribute:: message

        (Optional) Some text in :ref:`markup` that is shown to the student in an 'alert'
        box at the top of the page if this rule applies.

.. class:: FlowGradingRules

    Rules that govern how (permanent) grades are generated from the
    results of a flow.

    Found in the ``grading`` attribute of :class:`FlowRules`.

    .. rubric:: Conditions

    .. attribute:: if_has_role

        (Optional) A list of a subset of ``[unenrolled, ta, student, instructor]``.

    .. attribute:: if_has_tag

        (Optional) Rule applies if session has this tag (see :attr:`FlowStartRules.tag_session`),
        an identifier.

    .. attribute:: if_completed_before

        (Optional) A :ref:`datespec <datespec>`. Rule applies if the session was completed before
        this time.

    .. rubric:: Rules specified

    .. attribute:: credit_percent

        (Optional) A number indicating the percentage of credit assigned for this flow.
        Defaults to 100 if not present.

    .. attribute:: due

        A :ref:`datespec <datespec>` indicating the due date of the flow. This is shown to the
        participant and also used to batch-expire 'past-due' flows.

    .. attribute:: generates_grade

        (Optional) A Boolean indicating whether a grade will be recorded when this
        flow is ended. Note that the value of this rule must never change over
        the lifetime of a flow. I.e. a flow that, at some point during its lifetime,
        *may* have been set to generate a grade must *always* be set to generate
        a grade. Defaults to ``true``.

    .. attribute:: use_last_activity_as_completion_time

        (Optional) A Boolean indicating whether the last time a participant made
        a change to their flow should be used as the completion time.

        Defaults to ``false`` to match past behavior. ``true`` is probably the more
        sensible value for this.

    .. attribute:: description

        (Optional) A description of this set of grading rules being applied to the flow.
        Shown to the participant on the flow start page.

.. autoclass:: grade_aggregation_strategy

.. _flow-groups:

Page groups
-----------

Each flow consists of a number of page groups, each of which is made up of
individual :ref:`flow-page`.

The purpose of page groups is to allow shuffling and random selection of
some subset of pages. For example, this functionality would allow you to
have a flow consisting of:

* a fixed introduction page (that is always at the beginning)

* a group of exam questions randomly selected from a bigger pool

* a fixed final page (that may ask the student to, say, affirm academic
  honesty)

Each of these would be a separate 'group'.

Each group allows the following attributes:

.. class:: FlowPageGroup

    .. attribute:: id

        (Required) A symbolic name for the page group.

    .. attribute:: pages

        (Required) A list of :ref:`flow-page`

    .. attribute:: shuffle

        (Optional) A boolean (True/False) indicating whether the order
        of pages should be as in the list :attr:`FlowGroup.pages` or
        determined by random shuffling

    .. attribute:: max_page_count

        (Optional) An integer limiting the page count of this group
        to a certain value. Allows selection of a random subset by combining
        with :attr:`FlowGroup.shuffle`.

.. _flow-permissions:

Permissions
-----------

RELATE currently supports the following permissions:

.. autoclass:: flow_permission

The ``modify`` permission is automatically removed from
a finished session.

.. _page-permissions:

Per-page permissions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. _flow-life-cycle:

Life cycle
----------

.. autoclass:: flow_session_expiration_mode

.. _flow-page:

Flow pages
----------

.. currentmodule:: course.page

The following page types are predefined:

* :class:`Page` -- a page of static text
* :class:`TextQuestion` -- a page allowing a textual answer
* :class:`SurveyTextQuestion` -- a page allowing an ungraded textual answer
* :class:`HumanGradedTextQuestion` -- a page allowing an textual answer graded by a human
* :class:`InlineMultiQuestion` -- a page allowing answers to be given in-line of a block of text
* :class:`ChoiceQuestion` -- a one-of-multiple-choice question
* :class:`MultipleChoiceQuestion` -- a many-of-multiple-choice question
* :class:`SurveyChoiceQuestion` -- a page allowing an ungraded multiple-choice answer
* :class:`PythonCodeQuestion` -- an autograded code question
* :class:`PythonCodeQuestionWithHumanTextFeedback`
  -- a code question with automatic *and* human grading
* :class:`FileUploadQuestion`
  -- a question allowing a file upload and human grading

.. |id-page-attr| replace::

    A short identifying name, unique within the page group. Alphanumeric
    with dashes and underscores, no spaces.

.. |title-page-attr| replace::

    The page's title, a string. No markup allowed. Optional. If not supplied,
    the first five lines of the page body are searched for a first-level
    Markdown heading (``# My title``) and this heading is used as a title.

.. |access-rules-page-attr| replace::

    Optional. See :ref:`page-permissions`.

.. |value-page-attr| replace::

    An integer or a floating point number, representing the
    point value of the question.

.. |text-widget-page-attr| replace::

    Optional.
    One of ``text_input`` (default), ``textarea``, ``editor:yaml``,
    ``editor:markdown``.

.. autoclass:: Page()
.. autoclass:: TextQuestion()
.. autoclass:: SurveyTextQuestion()
.. autoclass:: HumanGradedTextQuestion()
.. autoclass:: InlineMultiQuestion()
.. autoclass:: ChoiceQuestion()
.. autoclass:: MultipleChoiceQuestion()
.. autoclass:: SurveyChoiceQuestion()
.. autoclass:: PythonCodeQuestion()
.. autoclass:: PythonCodeQuestionWithHumanTextFeedback()
.. autoclass:: FileUploadQuestion()

Definining your own page types
------------------------------

.. autoclass:: PageContext
.. autoclass:: PageBehavior
.. autofunction:: get_auto_feedback
.. autoclass:: AnswerFeedback
.. autoclass:: PageBase

.. currentmodule:: course.page.base
.. autoclass:: PageBaseWithTitle
.. autoclass:: PageBaseWithHumanTextFeedback
.. autoclass:: PageBaseWithCorrectAnswer
